Yann-Maurice McNiven
Pippin Barr
CART 263

Snow Drift was envisioned as a narrative experience with fourth wall breaking moments, procedural generating infinite lands and a story which would take the hero (the hare) to a land beyond the realm of eldritch dreamers. When crafting the story I pulled some heavy influence from H.P.Lovecraft’s At the Mountains of Madness even using some of Lovecraft's old one language. Originally I wanted a slow building story, a barren land with not much in it, alone the player with the main character is trapped with a semi-conscious/very conscious narrator much like the excellent story of Stanley’s Parable, I drew on this when recording but found myself creating a much more story driven script. This project allowed me to use the CDA labs recording room for the first time and I will be sure to take full advantage of both it and the editing room next year. More amusing though was the fun I had doing the voice for the narrator, and although obviously really imperfect and you can hear my breathing in it, it was still a fun first experience doing voice stuff. Not only this but I’ve learnt a lot about three key things in making this project first Project Planning, second Phaser, and third Problem Solving. My greatest challenge was certainly Project Planning, I envisioned something very large and didn’t recognize it as such, I got my functionality after a couple weeks but I didn’t envision how much time, animating, sound-editing would take and how hard implementing the narrator function would be, I encountered the classic problem of not having enough time to figure out how to properly manage so many files and so I had to cut a lot of it out of my Final Project. This was also my first Phaser project, I chose to work with phaser2 because this is what the original Isometric plugin was made for although I know now that there is a port over to phaser3. Phaser has proven to be easy to use, complicated at times but once you practice with it, a lot can be accomplished quite easily. I think overall my journey into phaser has been fruitful and while I have perhaps not utilized phaser to its full potential I do intend to return to this project and phaser to complete my vision as a personal project over the summer. Finally problem solving which has been the most important of lessons learnt, not only in figuring out how to get certain things working the way I want them to, but also with figuring out and managing my time properly, I definitely dropped the ball on this one, in part due to my mismanagement, in other part it's the incredibly busy season of final projects and essay that comes with the end of semester. Certainly in the future I will be quick to remind myself of the effort put into this project and quick to remind myself of the importance of not having eyes bigger than my plate, or in this case code.
